# **Introduction** #


The two data sets "RAW_recipes.cvs" (size: 83782 rows by 12 columns) and "RAW_interactions.csv" (size:731927 by 5 columns) were combined into one data frame (Initial size: 234429 rows by 19 columns) for the analysis and exploration seen below. "RAW_recipes" is a data frame that contains various information about recipes on food.com (e.g number of steps, ingredients, nutrition facts, etc.), while interaction hold information regarding user interaction with these recipes on the website(e.g reviews, user rating, comments etc).


The main question explored in this endeavor is: Do recipes with a 1-star average rating have a different distribution of the number of steps in the recipe than 5-star average recipes.


# **Cleaning and EDA (Exploratory Data Analysis)** #
The first step in the cleaning and EDA process was combining the two datasets provided. Since the enteries in recipes are unique, a left merge was conducted so that each row from the interactions data frame corresponded to a recipe from the recipes data frame, allowing multiple rows with the same recipe but differing in their interaction information since interactions are with respect to a recipe. These data frames both have a shared column called "id" in recipes and "recipe_id" in interaction which have shared values corresponding to the same recipe, these columns were used for the merge. The second step in this section, was converting ratings stord as 0-stars to null values. This was done because on the website users are allowed to leave comments and reviews without giving a star rating, the csv filed stored these types of interactions with a 0. This was important to change, because these 0 start rating would drastically affect the average during statistcal analysis later one. Once these 0 values were converted to null values, the average score for each recipe was computed based off of the user ratings (null values are not factored into this mean calculation thus giving an accurate result). After completing these steps the columns 'more_than_1_rating', 'has_null_avg_rating', and 'has_description' were added to the data frame. The aformentioned mention columns all store True or False values which are later used to asses missingness and simply computations for statistically analysis. Lastly the columns 'recipe_id' and 'review' were dropped since 'recipe_id' is a duplicate of 'id' and the 'review' column was not needed for the types of analysis later conducted.
